java/GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# Getting Started with Game of Life kata in Java

## Prerequisites

- macOS, Linux or Windows
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) client
- [curl](https://curl.se/download.html) command line utility
- [Java JDK-11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html#JDK11)
  <details><summary>Details</summary>

  The source code of this project is compatible with Java-11 and above.
  Remember to update the java version in the kata's [pom.xml](pom.xml)
  and/or [build.gradle](build.gradle) if you're planning to use a different version.

  </details>

## Getting ready

### 1 - Clone the kata repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/murex/Kata-GameOfLife.git
```
### 2 - Go to the kata's `java` directory
```shell
cd Kata-GameOfLife/java
```

## Running the kata

You can run the kata from the command line or from your IDE of choice.

You may also run it using [TCR](../tcr/TCR.md) if you want to add a bit of spice.

### Running the kata from a terminal with Gradle
<details><summary>Instructions</summary>

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

The kata comes with Gradle wrapper pre-installed. Just type the following to run it.
```shell
./gradlew clean test
```
</details>

### Running the kata from a terminal with Maven
<details><summary>Instructions</summary>

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

The kata comes with Maven wrapper pre-installed. Just type the following to run it.
```shell
./mvnw clean test
```
</details>

### Running the kata from a terminal with TCR
<details><summary>Instructions</summary>

> ***Note to Windows users***
> 
> Use a **git bash** terminal for running the command below.
> _Windows CMD and PowerShell are not supported_

Type the following to start TCR:
```shell
./tcrw
```
Refer to `Using TCR` section at the end of this document for additional
details about TCR and available options.
</details>

### Running the kata from IntelliJ IDEA
<details><summary>Instructions</summary>

Open Intellij IDEA and select:

`File` > `Open` > `Kata-GameOfLife` > `java`

After loading the project into IntelliJ, you can build the project
using either the Maven or Gradle built-in build tools.

Run all the tests in the [GameOfLifeTest](./src/test/java/com/murex/GameOfLifeTest.java)
class.

The "**Run**" tool window should display all the executed tests.

</details>

### Running the kata from IntelliJ IDEA with TCR
<details><summary>Instructions</summary>

TCR is provided as a command line utility running in a terminal.
You can run it from IntelliJ IDEA directly, through leveraging on its built-in terminal.

#### 1. Open the kata

Open Intellij IDEA and select:

`File` > `Open` > `Kata-GameOfLife` > `java`

#### 2. Turn off auto-save

TCR is constantly watching the filesystem for changes.
For this reason you need to turn off Intellij IDEA's auto-save in order for it to behave as expected.

`File` > `Settings` > `Appearance & Behavior` > `System Settings`

Under `Autosave` section, uncheck the 2 following options:

- Save files if the IDE is idle for ___ seconds
- Save files when switching to a different application or a built-in terminal

#### 3. Configure the built-in terminal to run git bash

> ***Windows Only***
>
> Skip this step if you're on macOS or Linux

Intellij IDEA for Windows is usually set up to run PowerShell by default in its built-in terminal.
TCR does not run in PowerShell.

`File` > `Settings` > `Tools` > `Terminal`

Under `Application Settings` section, set the `Shell path` to `C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`

The above path is for a default git installation location. You may need to adjust it in case you have installed git at a
different location.

#### 4. Open a built-in terminal

`View` > `Tool Windows` > `Terminal`

#### 5. Launch TCR

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

From the built-in terminal:

```shell
./tcrw
```
Refer to `Using TCR` section at the end of this document for additional
details about TCR and available options.

</details>

## Using TCR

### Cheat Sheet

Here are the main shortcuts available once TCR utility is running:

| Shortcut | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `?` | List available options
| `d` / `D` | Enter driver role (from main menu) |
| `n` / `N` | Enter navigator role (from main menu) |
| `q` / `Q` | Quit current role - Quit TCR (from main menu) |
| `t` / `T` | Query timer status (from driver role only) |
| `p` / `P` | Toggle on/off git auto-push (from main menu) |

### Additional Details

Refer to [TCR - Test && Commit || Revert](../tcr/TCR.md) page
for additional details and explanations about TCR utility.

Commit message:

Replace expandable sections with ToC in Getting Started

java/GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# Getting Started with Game of Life kata in Java

## Prerequisites

- macOS, Linux or Windows
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) client
- [curl](https://curl.se/download.html) command line utility
- [Java JDK-11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html#JDK11)
  <details><summary>Details</summary>

  The source code of this project is compatible with Java-11 and above.
  Remember to update the java version in the kata's [pom.xml](pom.xml)
  and/or [build.gradle](build.gradle) if you're planning to use a different version.

  </details>

## Getting ready

### 1 - Clone the kata repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/murex/Kata-GameOfLife.git
```
### 2 - Go to the kata's `java` directory
```shell
cd Kata-GameOfLife/java
```

## Running the kata

You can run the kata from the command line or from your IDE of choice.

You may also run it using [TCR](../tcr/TCR.md) if you want to add a bit of spice.

- [From a terminal with Gradle](#running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-gradle)
- [From a terminal with Maven](#running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-maven)
- [From a terminal with TCR](#running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-tcr)
- [From IntelliJ IDEA](#running-the-kata-from-intellij-idea)
- [From IntelliJ IDEA with TCR](#running-the-kata-from-intellij-idea-with-tcr)

<a name="running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-gradle"/></a>
### Running the kata from a terminal with Gradle

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

The kata comes with Gradle wrapper pre-installed. Just type the following to run it.
```shell
./gradlew clean test
```

<a name="running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-maven"/></a>
### Running the kata from a terminal with Maven

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

The kata comes with Maven wrapper pre-installed. Just type the following to run it.
```shell
./mvnw clean test
```

<a name="running-the-kata-from-a-terminal-with-tcr"/></a>
### Running the kata from a terminal with TCR

> ***Note to Windows users***
> 
> Use a **git bash** terminal for running the command below.
> _Windows CMD and PowerShell are not supported_

Type the following to start TCR:
```shell
./tcrw
```

Refer to [Using TCR](#using-tcr) section for additional details about TCR and available options.

<a name="running-the-kata-from-intellij-idea"/></a>
### Running the kata from IntelliJ IDEA

Open Intellij IDEA and select:

`File` > `Open` > `Kata-GameOfLife` > `java`

After loading the project into IntelliJ, you can build the project
using either the Maven or Gradle built-in build tools.

Run all the tests in the [GameOfLifeTest](./src/test/java/com/murex/GameOfLifeTest.java)
class.

The "**Run**" tool window should display all the executed tests.

<a name="running-the-kata-from-intellij-idea-with-tcr"/></a>
### Running the kata from IntelliJ IDEA with TCR

TCR is provided as a command line utility running in a terminal.
You can run it from IntelliJ IDEA directly, through leveraging on its built-in terminal.

#### 1. Open the kata

Open Intellij IDEA and select:

`File` > `Open` > `Kata-GameOfLife` > `java`

#### 2. Turn off auto-save

TCR is constantly watching the filesystem for changes.
For this reason you need to turn off Intellij IDEA's auto-save in order for it to behave as expected.

`File` > `Settings` > `Appearance & Behavior` > `System Settings`

Under `Autosave` section, uncheck the 2 following options:

- Save files if the IDE is idle for ___ seconds
- Save files when switching to a different application or a built-in terminal

#### 3. Configure the built-in terminal to run git bash

> ***Windows Only***
>
> Skip this step if you're on macOS or Linux

Intellij IDEA for Windows is usually set up to run PowerShell by default in its built-in terminal.
TCR does not run in PowerShell.

`File` > `Settings` > `Tools` > `Terminal`

Under `Application Settings` section, set the `Shell path` to `C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`

The above path is for a default git installation location. You may need to adjust it in case you have installed git at a
different location.

#### 4. Open a built-in terminal

`View` > `Tool Windows` > `Terminal`

#### 5. Launch TCR

> ***Reminder***: the command below should be run from [Kata-GameOfLife/java]() directory

From the built-in terminal:

```shell
./tcrw
```

Refer to [Using TCR](#using-tcr) section for additional details about TCR and available options.

<a name="using-tcr"/></a>
## Using TCR

### Cheat Sheet

Here are the main shortcuts available once TCR utility is running:

| Shortcut  | Description                                   |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------|
| `?`       | List available options                        |
| `d` / `D` | Enter driver role (from main menu)            |
| `n` / `N` | Enter navigator role (from main menu)         |
| `q` / `Q` | Quit current role - Quit TCR (from main menu) |
| `t` / `T` | Query timer status (from driver role only)    |
| `p` / `P` | Toggle on/off git auto-push (from main menu)  |

### Additional Details

Refer to [TCR - Test && Commit || Revert](../tcr/TCR.md) page
for additional details and explanations about TCR utility.
